LEEDS-BASED FOLK ARTIST
RHIANNON HOPE
ANNOUNCES NEW SINGLE
‘MAGPIE’
OUT 23RD APRIL 


DEBUT EP
ALL THINGS, RISING AND RETURNING
OUT NOW VIA PRIVATE REGCORDS


  

Credit: Sam Dallamore-Hynd, high-res here


“songs that feel like individual prayers, each existing in a delicate world of their own” - Far Out Magazine


Further support from DIY Magazine, Still Listening, Louder Than War, BBC Introducing and more


Following the release of her debut EP All Things, Rising And Returning, Leeds folk songwriter Rhiannon Hope returns with the delicately drawn-out ‘Magpie’. 


An ode to trinkets and those who collect them, ‘Magpie’ marks a departure from the sound that Rhiannon Hope honed on All Things, Rising And Returning. Her vocals are just as commanding, her songwriting just as gentle, but Hope swaps her trusty accordion for a seven-minute indulgence in looping keys and auxiliary percussion. Saxophones and subtle drums fade in and out of view as Hope ruminates on the myth of the magpie, the comfort of collecting.


This departure may stem from Rhiannon’s approach to writing the track, which involved fusing two shorter writings into what would become the lengthiest song in her discography. “Each was a little too short to be its own song,” she explains, “I’d never written a song like that before, but I really enjoy how long the song is and how completely different the two sections are.” Despite the daunting length, the track was recorded completely live and has already become a band and fan favourite in their setlist. 


Written while Hope was settling into a new city, ‘Magpie’ became an way to affirm a new identity, an attempt to ground herself through the collected ornaments and objects that surrounded her. “‘Magpie’ is a song for collectors,” Rhiannon explains, “It’s a personal love letter to all the shit I have ever accumulated and loved; trinkets, hats, plants, mugs, posters, books, and anything else. All the things that bring me comfort and make me feel like a person.”


“I also just love objects; I’m a bit of a hoarder,” Hope affirms, “Not in a shallow way - not that there’s anything wrong with that - but I have sweet wrappers or bottle tops that I can’t let go of because they remind me of a nice memory. I think it’s really special and so I wanted to write about that.” ‘Magpie’ arrives on 23rd April. 
  



About Rhiannon Hope


Helming from Leeds-via-Liverpool, Rhiannon Hope has quickly found her footing in Yorkshire’s grassroots scene, collecting a unique band of multi-instrumentalists along the way. Together, they create textured, jazz-influenced folk soundscapes which act as a bed for Rhiannon’s bittersweet experiences of womanhood, identity and the working class. Somewhere between her unfaltering vibrato and intimate songwriting, Hope has earned a loyal following in her adopted city. 


Last year, Rhiannon released her debut EP, All Things, Rising And Returning, on vinyl via Leeds cult label Private Regcords. The record was featured as one of Far Out Magazine’s top independent releases of the year, as well as receiving support from DIY Magazine, Louder Than War, BBC Introducing, Still Listening Magazine and more. Rhiannon has previously shared the stage with the likes of Green Gardens and Gal Go (of King Krule), and has plans for a second EP release later this year. 


To celebrate the release of ‘Magpie’, Rhiannon will play a hometown headline at the beloved Brudenell Social Club, accompanied by Neve Cariad and Sam King. Full live listings can be found below. 


Guestlist, full EP streams and interviews available upon request. 


Live dates:


30th April - Brudenell Social Club, Leeds


For more information:
LinkTree | Instagram 


Or please contact: 
elle_palmer@msn.com / privateregproject@gmail.com